
So, what is a "build process"?

Well, a build process is a generic term used to describe the automated process of, when developing code,
helps the developer detect defects in their code and validates its correctness.
There are several things you (*******should*******) do when writing code:

1) write legible code
2) test your code
3) document your code

now, these are very high level ideas and sound rather obvious, but the manner in which you implement
these ideas can actually be very complicated. Lets look at the general flow of a developer when they committ
code and are following those three ideas:

1)  developer writes code following the style guidelines determined beforehand
    by the team.
2)  developer checks in code
3)  developer compiles (also known as "builds") the project
4)  developer runs tests
5)  developer writes documentation for successful code they have written

The reaction I hope your having write now is (man thats alot of work and repetition, I don't want to do all that EVERY time
I check in code). To solve this problem, most of those steps above have been automated to the point of:

1)  developer checks in code
2)  code is passed through a "style checker". A style checker is a program that errors out if the code it is reading
    breaks one of the rules that it internally contains.
3)  code is compiled automatically
4)  tests are built as part of the compilation process, and are automatically ran
5)  documentation is produced by another program running over the source (JavaDoc in Java, etc.)

Generally, THIS is a build process, so let us redefine it:
    A build process is an automated series of steps that turns source files into usable products.

In our example above, steps 2-5 would consist of the build process, meaning that someone could take the build binaries (or
intermediate code in the case of interpreting) and USE them as a product WHILE being confident that the code they are using
works.

build processes are VERY useful, but a little tedious to do. They require someone to write "build scripts" (scripts that actually
DO the automation) for their project(s) so that the developer(s) can use them. However, the benefits LARGLY outweight the problems
so I suggest that in any project you have, you use a build process.
